Empowers Over 95% of The Web (Links to an external site.) – As of 2018, 95% of the Internet was powered by JavaScript. The stats are likely to increase in the near future.
Excellent Choice of Frameworks – AngularJS, Ember.js Metero.js, ReactJS, and VueJS are just a few of the wide variety of frameworks available for JavaScript.
Superfast – ECMAScript 6 and related technologies are developed for modern web requirements, where speed is a must..
Readily Available Packages – There is a package for almost everything you can think of. Npm is the world’s largest software registry with a total of over 800,000 build blocks (Links to an external site.). So, the possibilities of creating with JavaScript are simply immense. 


Server side:
APIs  application program interface
    Define intractions.
    Process client requests.
    Perform Actions.
    Allow Server Responses.

-learnITs
  1  In programming we commonly use interfaces to abstract operations and provide a concise way to interact between a host and a user. An API stands for "Application Programming Interface" and is an interface that is usually expressed through shared protocols such as HTTP and relies on a standardized output format such as JSON.

  2.JSON.stringify() (data) is a method that converts a value or object to a string and additionally has 2 optional parameters that include replacer and space.

  3. To read, update, or delete a cookie you use the document.cookie property. Cookies are then commonly saved as name - value pairs.

  4. Cookies are a small file about a user that allows information to be carried over from related website or different sessions. These are commonly used because the server forgets everything once a connection is shut down.

  5. JSON.parse(string) primarily takes this data type as a parameter to construct a new JavaScript value or object.

  6. The client (such as my browser) interacts directly with a server when I make a web request. The server then interacts with a/an API to return data back to the client.

  7. If I wanted to get “Batman” as an output from the below code I would 
  type;
  superHero.character
  let superHero = {
  “name” : "Bruce Wayne",
  “character” : "Batman"
  }

  8. If I run the following code car.year . I will get an error! This is because there is a trailing comma and therefore you are unable to parse all the values.

  let car = {
  “make” : "Toyota",
  “model” : "Corolla",
  “year” : "2011",
  }
  